# `d3`

A pure RUST implementation of [CRYSTALS-Dilithium](https://pq-crystals.org/dilithium/) digital signature scheme in its Dilithium3 variant. This was taken from `crystals-dilithium`, stripped to its d3 variant and we'll modify the interface as we need it for Atlas, where `d3` is used in the Data Access Layer.

The code was ported from the original reference [source code](https://github.com/pq-crystals/dilithium) provided by the authors of the algorithm. 

The implementation takes advantage of Rust's clean and safe memory management. The code is much cleaner and shorter compared to the original.

The implementation was verified in two separate ways:
- Cross-verification with the reference implementation, where signatures generated by the Rust implementation were successfully verified by the reference C-implementation, and signatures generated by the reference implementation were verified by the Rust implementation.
- Self-verification, where signatures generated by the Rust implementation were verified by the Rust implementation itself. The verification was performed using the Monte Carlo methodology for random keys and random messages.

---
> **Use at Your Own Risk**  
> This implementation of the CRYSTALS-Dilithium cryptographic algorithm has not yet undergone a formal security audit by a recognized authority. As a result, there may be unknown security vulnerabilities, weaknesses, or potential flaws in the code. Users are advised to exercise caution when implementing or using this code.
---

## Build
```bash
cargo build --release
```

## How to use
```rust
use d3::Keypair;

let keypair = Keypair::generate(Some(&seed));
let sk = keypair.secret;
// pk is also available as keypair.public
let signature = keypair.sign(&msg);
// public key can now be separately derived from the secret key
let pk = PublicKey::from_sk(&sk);
let is_verified = pk.verify(&msg, &signature);
```

## Test
```bash
cargo test
```

## Benchmarks

Benchmarks are run using [criterion.rs](https://github.com/japaric/criterion.rs):
```bash
cargo bench
```
Running on an Apple M1 Max

| Benchmark                       | time      |
| :---                            |:----------|
| keypair generation              | 93.799 µs |
| signing                         | 125.73 µs |
| signature verification          | 82.825 µs |

## Docs
```bash
cargo doc --open
```

## Contributor Agreement

By contributing to this repository, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the [GPLv3 License](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).
